Git / Github Notes

DVCS - Distributed Version Control System

Initialize > .gitignore > git add File name >git status > git commit -m (message) > git log

.gitignore - This file is a list of files and/or directories that you do not want included in your repository. Git will not allow you to add any of the files referenced in .gitignore to your repository. CREATE GIT IGNORE FILE FOR EVERY GIT REPO!

Can make repo private on gitHub

Must git add to stage files before git commit will work

git status
  -Run this command any time and often to check on the status of the files in the git repository.
git add
  -This command stages changed files, readying them to be wrapped into the next commit.
git commit
  -This command commits staged files, wrapping them into a commit. A historical record of commits is what we refer to as a codebase's version or commit history.
git log
  -View the repository's commit history.

Git commit no -m will open vim as text editor

Git log -- online - simple display of git log 

TRACKING CHANGE - Try last video again, can’t change things in text editor VI

git remote - git will list all the remote repositories that your local repository knows about. 
  If you pass additional sub-commands to the git remote command, you can further add, remove, and modify the remote repos that your local repo is linked to

push repo to github - git push -u origin main
  -u flag tells Git to set the default upstream repo - the remote repo that you intend to use by default for push, pull, and similar operations

git pull --ff-only -- how to pull from remote repo
git fetch -- pull repo without looking at it first, full send
git clone - coppies a new directory into working directory and creates a cloned repo in the directory! DO NOT NEST REPOS!
  - navigate out of all git repos to avoid nested repos!!!!!

Fork -- GitHub fork -- make changes to your own coppy of a public repsoitory -- Still need to clone copy to onw machine

mkdir
cd to dir
git init
touch .gitignore - make one every time for hidden stuffs - open .gitignore add all shit to IGNORE
git status - shows working tree and staging area
git add - stages files to be committed
git commit -m "Message"
git add <file> -- every time you make a change to stage changes
git log - history of commits for repo
create GitHub repository
git remote add origin <github link>
git push -u origin main  --(-u for upstream (the remote repo we intend to use))
git fetch -- download commit data for each branch
git diff (main origin/main -- compares local repo to remote repo) (origin/main main -- compares remote to local)
git pull --ff-only
git clone <remote repository url> <local directory name> -- clones remote repo to local repo

